
### Learning Objective
##### Mechanical Pumps: Basic Function, learners will be able to:

- explain what happens to materials in vacuum
- identify components necessary for achieving high vacuum
##### Turbo Pumps: Basic Function, learners will be able to:

- explain how a turbopump operates. Introduce learners to: (1) Need for lower pressure vacuum; (2) How turbopump work; (3) what pressures can be achieved with a turbopump
##### Cyropump: Basic Function, learners will be able to:

- explain how a cryo-pump operates. Introduce learners to: (1) How crypoumps work; (2) Regeneration of cryopumps

### Mechanical Pumps: Basic Function
Welcome, I'm Nan Jokerst. And In this video we will talk about vacuum systems and mechanical pumps. Vacuum systems are used to deposit thin layers of materials such as metals and insulators onto our samples. The thicknesses of these vacuum deposited layers are very thin, on the order of five nanometers to 250 nanometers and are used in many materials devices including; integrated circuits and the lasers, and metal materials that my students make in our Clean Room at Duke, as shown here. For high yield, we need very pure layers of thin film materials that we deposit. This first requires an extremely clean environment, which can be found in a high vacuum system. Second, we need to use high purity source materials for deposition. These two conditions help us to minimize the number of impurity molecules in our thin films that are introduced during the deposition. These impurities can even be air molecules. So a clear path without air for the deposited material to travel from the source to the sample during deposition, as shown in this animation, is very important. A vacuum chamber is designed for high yield thin film deposition where more than 99.9999% of the air is removed. Another way, to think of just how empty a vacuum chamber is, for every 100 million air molecules present in the chamber when open to room air, we remove all but one. How do we do this? Through the use of vacuum pumps that remove the air from a sealed vacuum chamber. Let's take a look at a vacuum chamber at Duke. Hey Callie. Hey, I understand that you're making some photo detectors in the clean room today. Now a photo detector is a device, that's an electrical device used to detect light an output in electrical current. Callie can you take us in and show us the vacuum system that you're using to deposit the contents onto your photo detector? Sure I'd be happy to. Let's gown up and go into the Clean Room and to see the systems. That sounds great. Thanks. This is a metal deposition system and we can see the place inside where the vacuum pumps will remove the air from the chamber. This orange rubber ring, is a vacuum gasket that seals the chamber from the outside air when we close it. Let's close it now and we are ready to pump the chamber down to vacuum. The most common type of vacuum pump, is the mechanical pump. There are many different types of mechanical pumps, but all pumps serve one basic purpose; to push air out of the vacuum chamber. This is an important point. Mechanical pumps do not suck out air, Instead they push volumes of air out of the chamber. By pushing air out of the vacuum chamber, there's less air in the chamber near where the pump is pushing out the air. One type of mechanical pump, is the rotary vane pump shown in this animation. The rotor of the pump pushes a small volume of air to an outlet pipe with every rotation. But a typical pump rotates at over a thousand rpm. So with every rotation error is pushed out leaving less air in the chamber near the pump, creating a low pressure region in the chamber. This low pressure region in the chamber near the pump causes the air in the rest to the chamber to move toward the low pressure region. This movement of air is called diffusion. The same process is at work when I wear perfume. I spray the perfume on and the molecules of perfume diffuse throughout the room and everyone can smell my perfume, especially if I wear too much. The same process is at work in vacuum systems. The pump pushes air out of the vacuum chamber and the remaining air in the chamber will diffuse toward that low pressure region. As we remove the air from the system, the chamber pressure drops and the difference between the low pressure and the higher pressure areas become smaller. When this happens, the pump is less and less effective at pushing out the air. After the pressure reaches a few Torr which is called a rough vacuum. A mechanical pump is increasingly less effective at reducing the pressure, as shown, in this graph of pumping speed in liters per minute as a function of pressure. After the rough pump reduces the chamber pressure to a few tens of mini-torr then we need to use a second high vacuum pump to reach a high in a vacuum for high yield thin film deposition. We will talk about high vacuum pumps in other videos.Now let's go to Callie to demonstrate the mechanical pump. I'm now in the sample prep lab outside the Clean Room. We have put a marshmallow into the chamber because it will expand as the pressure in the chamber drops. This will enable us to see how the pressure is changing in the chamber as we pump the chamber with the mechanical pump. The chamber needs to be sealed so that air cannot get in when we pump it down and remove the air. Here's the O-ring gasket that seals the chamber. First, let's connect the input of the mechanical pump to a small vacuum chamber.
6:18
Next, let's turn on the pump and proceed to evacuate the chamber. The mechanical pump is pretty noisy. As the chamber pressure drops, we can see the marshmallow expanding. Remember, the mechanical pump is what we call a rough pump. It will only evacuate the chamber to a few torr or remove about 99.9% of the air. So in addition to the rough pump, we would need a high vacuum pump to achieve lower pressures. But the mechanical pump is sufficient for this demonstration. Okay. Let's turn off the pump and we will now let air back into the chamber. As we go from vacuum to atmospheric pressure, the marshmallow collapses. Thanks for joining me today in the lab.

### Turbo Pumps: Basic Function
Welcome back. I'm Nan Jokerst, and in this video we're going to talk about how to achieve low pressure, also called high vacuum using a turbo pump. Mechanical pumps alone cannot typically reach pressures low enough for thin film high quality deposition. So we need to use another pump, a high vacuum pump in addition to the mechanical pump. Remember that air molecules in a vacuum chamber will introduce the impurities in the deposited film. We can use mechanical pumps to remove some of this air, but there is a limit to how many air molecules that mechanical pump can remove from the vacuum chamber. So we need to continue to pump after we use a mechanical pump to achieve much lower pressures in the vacuum chamber for very high purity deposited films. Since the high vacuums pumps don't function in atmospheric pressure, we need to start with the mechanical pump and then use a high vacuum pump. The two high vacuum pumps that we will present in this course are turbomolecular pumps and cryogenic pumps. The turbomolecular pump, or in the lingo of the trade, a turbo pump, is capable of reaching much lower pressures than a mechanical pump alone. First, we rough pump the system with a mechanical pump, and then we use the turbo pump afterwards. But there's a catch. A turbo pump needs a helping hand. It cannot pump alone. It gets help, or we say is backed, by a mechanical pump. This simply means that the air from the output of the turbo pump is removed by the mechanical pump. So we're going to use the mechanical pump in two different ways. First, to rough out the vacuum system from atmosphere pressure to about 10 torr so that we can turn on the turbo pump afterwards. Second, we use that mechanical pump to back the turbo pump. The design of a turbo pump is quite simple. It consists of several turbines spinning at high speed. Similar to a tennis racket [SOUND] hitting a ball, air molecules are hit by the angled turbine blades and are bounced out of the chamber and into the turbo pump. There are many turbine blades and this happens many times, as shown in this animation. As the air molecules in the chamber near the pump are decreased in number, the rest of the air molecules in the chamber diffuse toward the turbo pump where there's less air. The air molecules that the turbo pump collects make their way out of the outlet of the turbo pump, which then are pumped by the mechanical pump that is backing the turbo pump The pumping ability of a turbo pump is related to the speed of the turbines which typically spin at 50,000 revolutions per minute or more. Compare that to a typical mechanical pump, which rotates at less than 5,000 revolutions per minute. Now this is still pretty fast. A helicopter rotor typically spins at only 400 to 500 rpm. High vacuum pumps can achieve 10 to the -6 torr for depositions and they can achieve even lower pressures than that. But they're typically limited by small leaks in the system or in gaskets. Or if the system outgasses, which means there are air molecules of trapped gas in the system, they tend to come off the chamber walls as the pressure decreases. We can do a bake-out where we increase the temperature of the chamber to drive these molecules off of the walls with heat. That can help to reduce outgassing, but this is usually not necessary for thin film deposition systems. A turbo pump can routinely evacuate a large vacuum chamber to 10 to the -7 torr, or equivalently, 1.3 times 10 to the -5 pascals. Pressures on the order of 10 to the -6 torr are fine for most thin film depositions, and a correctly sized turbo pump will pump out a chamber in about one hour. Turbo pumps are one high vacuum pump option. Be sure to look at the cryopump video as well to learn about another commonly used high vacuum pump.
### Cyropump: Basic Function
Welcome back. I'm Nan Jokerst. In this video we are going to talk about how to achieve low pressure also called high vacuum using a cryopump. Mechanical pumps alone cannot typically reach pressures low enough for thin film deposition of high quality, so we need to use another pump, a high vacuum pump in addition to the mechanical pump for high purity deposited thin films since air molecules in the vacuum chamber will introduce impurities in the film. However, the high vacuum pumps that will evacuate the chamber to a much lower pressure don't function at atmospheric pressure. So we need to start with the mechanical pump and then use a high vacuum pump after the mechanical pump. The two high vacuum pumps that we will present in this course are cryogenic pumps and turbo molecular pumps. The cryogenic pump or for short the cryopump is capable of reaching much lower pressures than a mechanical pump alone. Here's what we do. First, we rough pump the system with a mechanical pump and then after that we use the cryopump. The cryopump relies on a phenomenon that we see in our everyday lives, condensation, as shown on this glass of water. As a surface is cooled, gas molecules in the air are also cooled and some change state from gas to liquid. To condense all of the molecules in the air means that we need to use a very cold surface because many of these molecules condense at very low temperatures. A cryopump uses a compressor similar to a refrigerator with one big difference, a cryopump uses helium as a coolant. A cryopump is typically cool to 15 degrees Kelvin which is minus 258 degrees C. A cryopump can reach pressures down to 10 to the minus eighth torr or equivalently 1.3 times 10 to the minus 6 Pascals or even lower. The cooled region of the cryopump has large surface areas because more surface area means more trapped air molecules. Arrays of helium cooled metal fins called baffles provide that frozen surface area as shown here. Some areas in the pump are even covered with activated carbon which is porous and has extremely large surface area to trap even more air molecules. Here's a good question, where do the air molecules go that are frozen on the cryopump? A very good question because the cryopump has no outlet. Well the air molecules stay frozen and trapped in that pump until at some point all of the surface area on the metal fins and all of the pores in the carbon become filled with trapped air molecules. The term for this, is that the pump is saturated. When the pump is saturated it will no longer pump efficiently. This reduction in efficiency is obvious to the user because it either takes longer for the vacuum chamber to pump down to low pressure or the vacuum chamber will not pump to a lower pressure at all. Sometimes also the user will observe on the cryopump thermometer that the internal temperature of the pump begins to rise. When the pump is saturated, it needs to be regenerated. To regenerate the pump, it's filled with ultra high purity nitrogen gas which is slightly heated and the pump is allowed to slowly warm up to room temperature. This heating means that the metal fins can't freeze those air molecules any longer and the trapped air molecules evaporate and are then pumped out of the system with the mechanical pump. Think of it as hanging your clothes out to dry, the water comes off the clothes. Once this process is complete, the cryopump is as good as new and ready to pump efficiently again. One characteristic of cryopumps is the crossover pressure or the pressure which the user changes from a mechanical rough pump to the cryopump. As an example, if a cryopump has a 150 torr liter cross-over rating then we take that cross-over rating and divide by the chamber volume to calculate the cross-over pressure. That's the maximum pressure for cross-over from the mechanical pump to the cryopump or you'll be freezing too many air molecules and you'll have to regenerate too quickly. Cryopumps are one high vacuum pump option. Be sure also to take a look at the turbo pump video to learn about another commonly used high vacuum pump. I hope you enjoyed this lesson. Thank you for joining me today.
