### Learning Objective

* describe the etching environment and how etching occurs in plasma dry etching
* discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using plasma dry etching for an etching process
* describe the steps required to etch a wafer using a reactive ion etcher and the rationale for each step in the process
* identify steps in the procedure that affect etching

### Basic Function
- In dry etching charged ions are used to enhance material removal. 
    + The chemistry in-charged species are formed in a plasma discharge. 
    + Removal means that the atoms move from a solid phase to a mobile gas phase. 
    + This can be done by __chemical reaction, physical removal of material or a combination of both__. 
    
Here's a schematic of a chamber where plasma etching would occur. The substrate is placed between two electrodes. The substrate sits directly on one of these electrodes. 
Depending on the type of etching that is performed, this electrode may be grounded or powered. Gases are also flowed into the chamber. Plasma systems use radio frequency or microwave energy to ionize gases under vacuum. 
Pressures in this chamber range depending on the type of process but are typically less than one Torr. 
By applying a high electric field across the two electrodes, some of the gas atoms are ionized to form a plasma. 
  + A voltage bias also develops between the plasma and the electrodes. This is due to the difference in mobility of the electrons and the ions. The lighter more mobile electrons are lost to the electrodes at a faster rate than the slower heavier ions. 
  + An electric field is formed to balance the rate of electron loss to the rate of ion loss. This results in the plasma being biased positively with respect to the electrodes. It helps to drive ionized atoms and molecules to the substrate surface. 

- One thing to note is that in this type of setup only the surface exposed to the plasma will be etched. The backside of the wafer is protected by the electrode that it sits on. Within the plasma, high-energy electrons collide with gas molecules to create dissociated reactive species. This means that plasmas contain a variety of species including free electrons, ionized molecules, neutral molecules, ionized fragments of broken molecules, free radicals, and atoms and molecules that are excited above the ground state. These excited atoms and molecules generate the light that you see in the plasma and deliver energy to the surface that you're trying to process. For example, in a CF4 plasma, there will be electrons, CF4 or carbon tetrafluoride and dissociated fragments of CF4, including CF3 or trifluoromethyl, CF2, as well as other CFX fragments. These dissociated fragments can be neutral or electrically charged ions. It is these molecules that enable etching. In dry etching, reactive neutral species like free radicals act to remove material through chemical reactions. Free radicals are highly reactive due to an unpaired electron in their outer shell. They want to fill up these shells so they quickly bond to other atoms. In a properly designed etch process, these species react specifically with the material to be removed. These interactions are considered selective. This means that they will etch the desired material at a higher etch rate than the other materials in the chamber, including the mask, the underlayer and actual chamber material. However, these reactions also tend to be isotropic in nature. This means that the radicals will react equally in the vertical and lateral directions which leads to more under-cutting, shown here. Let's look more closely at how the free radicals that formed in the CF4 plasma react with the silicon film. Electrons react with CF4 to produce fluorine and CF3 radicals. If you have a silicon substrate, florine can react with it via this reaction. The byproduct of this reaction is the gas, silicon tetrafluoride. This species easily evaporates into the gas phase and leaves the surface exposed for more silicon to be etched. 

It is important in etch processes that byproducts of etch as well as any unreacted etchens be removed from the surface for the etching to continue. In some etch processes, reaction products can be used to passivate surfaces that you do not want to etch. Passivation shield surfaces from chemical attack. This process enables very highly selective and anisotropic processing. 
Dry etching can also utilize physical processes to remove material. Because of the electric field, positive ions accelerate towards the electrodes. As ions strike the surface, they physically dislodge surface atoms. This process is termed sputtering. Ions also deposit energy on these horizontal services that can increase chemical reaction rates on these surfaces. This is the primary mechanism that drives anisotropic reactions. Due to the electric field, ions typically arrive perpendicular to the wafer surface. Thus, this process tends to be highly directional. Etching occurs primarily in the vertical direction. Ions also deposit energy on these horizontal surfaces that can increase chemical reaction rates on the surfaces. This is the primary mechanism that drives anisotropic reactions. However, it also has low selectivity since ions will remove atoms wherever they hit the surface, even from the mask. 
- To get both anisotropic and highly selective conditions, chemical and physical processes can be combined. It has been found that these two processes act synergistically. The etch rate of the combination processes is actually much faster than the sum of the etch rate of the individual processes. After etching, imaging by scanning electron microscopy or profilometry measurements should be conducted to validate the etching process. The sample should also be characterized prior to etching. 

- Here, we can see a list of common material on etching pairs for dry etching. It is important to consider all of the material components when you are selecting an etching. For example, if you want to etch a polysilicon material and you are using photoresist as a protective layer, you may not want to select an etchant like CF4 and oxygen because it could also attack the photoresist. Dry etching is advantageous due to this anisotropic nature of the reactions. This allows the creation of small intricate features. It is also useful for making features with high aspect ratios, meaning the features are very tall or deep but not very wide. This is particularly important in certain memory devices. Dry etching can also be anisotropic without compromising selectivity. Dry etching is relatively safe when compared to other etching process like wet etching. Though the reactive gases can be dangerous, the reactions are contained in a vacuum chamber that separates the user from any harmful substances. Dry etching is also less wasteful than other techniques as a chemical consumption during the process is small. Finally, the process can be finally controlled because the user is able to easily select many of the reaction conditions including power to the plasma, electrode temperature, and gas composition. Dry etching does have its drawbacks. Primarily, it requires very complex equipment. There is also the possibility of particulates forming and the residues can be left on the substrate. The process is also expensive. Not only is the equipment costly, but typically, only one substrate can be etched at a time. This makes batch processing very difficult. When selecting an etching process, it is important to take these pros and cons under consideration.

### Demostration

Today, we are using a reactive ion etcher. 
- Reactive ion etching is a type of dry etching that uses a combination of chemical and physical processes to etch the wafer surface. This is the chamber where the etching will take place. The chamber is enclosed and contains the etching reactions. 

- Within this chamber are two electrodes. The top electrode is grounded while the wafer rests on the bottom electrode. An RF generator supplies energy to the bottom electrode. 
- The chamber is held under vacuum. Reactive gases are flowed into the chamber, and the electric field is created between the two electrodes and leads to plasma formation. Recall that free radicals in the plasma were removed material through chemical reaction. 
- Free radicals are highly reactive due to an unpaired electron in their outer shell. They want to fill their outer shells so they can quickly bond to atoms on the wafer surface. In addition, ions in the plasma will strike the wafer surface and physically dislodge surface atoms. This process is termed, sputtering. The combination of chemical reactions on ion sputtering accelerates removal of material on horizontal surfaces of the substrate. This produces a highly anisotropic process. 
In the facility, the gases are stored in a gas manifold and piped to the etching chamber. In our system, we have six gases for a variety of etch processes. The entire etching process is controlled through a software interface. Here, we can change the reaction parameters like the temperature, gas flow rate, and pressure. Before we start the etch, we will check on several parameters in the system such as mechanical pump, turbo pump, gate valve, throttle valve, and chamber. We also make sure that the base pressure in the chamber is less than 3.5 MicroTorr. To begin the etching process, we must first vent the system. This is done by either venting the process chamber or venting an adjacent chamber that allows for wafer loading without breaking vacuum in the reaction chamber. This adjacent chamber is typically referred to as a load lock. 
- The system we're using today does not utilize a load lock, and the wafer is loaded directly into the reaction chamber. The system will purge the chamber of any reacting gases using nitrogen. Then it will flood the chamber with nitrogen until it reaches atmospheric pressure. Once the chamber reaches atmospheric pressure, we can open the chamber door. To do this, the lid control selector is rotated to the open position. Then the two green buttons on the front of the machine are pressed down simultaneously. The chamber will not open until both buttons are pushed. This is a safety mechanism to ensure that your hands do not get caught in the machine. The chamber lid will then lift up and swing out. Here's the bottom electrode where we will place the wafer. The bottom electrode is also called a chuck, which holds the wafer. 
- To prevent contamination, we do not touch the chuck's surface with anything but the sample. Today, we'll use carbon tetrafluoride to etch a silicon dioxide film that was deposited on a silicon wafer. The 100 nanometer film of silicon dioxide is protected in specific areas with a polymer film called a photoresist. We can see the blue silicon dioxide film and the light brown photoresist pattern. We place our wafer onto the center of the chuck. To close the lid, we must first rotate the lid control selector to the closed position. Then we press the green buttons at the same time. The lid closes. We then pump down the chamber and name the wafer in the software. The software contains recipes for different etching procedures. Each recipe has been tailored for specific etching and substrate combinations, etch rates, and etch profiles. The recipe is a set of steps that the instrument will undertake automatically. 
- It will dictate different system parameters such as temperature, pressure, power, and gas flow rate. These parameters all affect the etching process. Today, we will select a recipe suited for etching silicon dioxide with carbon tetrafluoride. After we select the ideal recipe, we start the process. Each step is automated. Throughout the process, we will monitor system parameters and statuses through the computer interface to ensure that everything is running smoothly. Though the reaction is contained in the chamber, there is a small viewing window where we can see the plasma. The software will tell us when the end of process has been reached. When the etching process is complete, we can vent the chamber through the software interface. We can then open the chamber as before. We then remove the sample from the chamber with tweezers. Here is the wafer after the surface has been etched. Let's compare it to a wafer with a thin film of silicon dioxide like the one we put in the chamber originally. Notice how the wafer has a blue color to it before etching. 
- This is the silicon dioxide film. After etching, the blue color is gone, revealing the silver silicon underneath. Also notice, the brown photoresist layer remains, indicating that we have not etched away our photoresist mask. The photoresist is later removed revealing the silicon dioxide structures underneath. To confirm that the thin film has been completely removed, it is also important to do further characterization with electron microscopy, profilometry, ellipsometry, or reflectometry. 
- After done etching, close the lid of the chamber and then pump down the chamber to keep it clean for the next user.
