### Energy-dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy: Basic Function, learners will be able to:

- explain how EDS is a non-destructive analytical technique and that it reveals elemental information of a specimen
- name the components that the EDS technique requires
- explain what a "characteristic x-ray" is and how it is produced in an EM - and why it identifies elemental composition info
- identify challenges in EDS

### Energy-dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy: Sample Preparation Demonstration, learners will be able to:

- explain how EDS is a non-destructive analytical technique and that it reveals elemental information of a specimen
- recognize that the EDS technique requires skills and training as a microscopist

### Energy-Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy: Basic Function

Hello. I'm Roberto Garcia. I'm a lab manager at the Analytical Instrumentation Facility at NC State University, part of the Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network. In this video, you will learn the basics of energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy or EDS. EDS is a non-destructive analytical technique. It provides information on the elemental and chemical composition of a sample. EDS essentially allows us to determine what something is made out of. To perform an EDS experiment, we need an electron microscope, a special detector known as an EDS detector, and software to analyze the data. You may be wondering how a microscope, a tool that are used primarily for imaging can provide elemental or chemical information. In electron microscope, a high-energy electron beam is accelerated towards the specimen. When the electron beam hits the atoms that make up the sample, electron signals are generated such as secondary and backscattered electrons. These electrons signals are used to produce an image of the sample. However, electrons are not the only signals generated as a result of the beam interacting with the sample. The beam also causes X-rays to be emitted from the sample. To understand how this happens, let's consider a single atom in the sample. When an electron from the incident beam imparts enough energy to the sample, an electron can be ejected from one of the atom's electron shells. This leaves a vacancy like a hole in the electron shell where the electron originally was. For the atom to return to a stable state, an electron must replace the one that was emitted. An electron from a higher energy shell will drop down into this lower energy shell. When an electron from a higher energy outer shell dropped into a lower energy shell vacancy, it must lose some of its original energy. The electrons excess energy is emitted in the form of an X-ray. This X-ray can be detected by the EDS detector and analyzed by software to identify the element that it came from. How can an X-ray identify a specific element? Well, not all X-rays are alike. X-rays can have varying energies measured in kiloelectron volts or keV for short. They can also have different wavelengths. In energy-dispersive spectroscopy, we are analyzing the energy of the X-rays generated from the sample. When X-rays are emitted from a sample in an SEM, the energy of each generated X-ray will be dictated by the elements present and the electron shells that make up the atoms. Basically, this means each element will have its own unique identifying X-ray signal, just like how humans each have their own unique fingerprint. Analyzing this signal for an EDS experiment involves measuring the energy of each characteristic X-ray signal and counting how often that particular energy signal appears. The special detector must be installed on the electron microscope to detect and measure these signals, simply called an EDS detector. The beam hits the sample, characteristic energy signals are generated from the sample, and the EDS detector amplifies and measures the energy of the X-ray. Then analysis software counts the amount of X-rays at each energy and plots them on a graph called a spectrum. On this spectrum, the software plots the number of X-rays as count or intensity on the y-axis versus the energy of the photons counted in thousands of electron volts or kiloelectron volts, keV, on the x-axis. Remember, each element has its own characteristic X-rays, each with a unique energy measured in keV. EDS software helps to match the measured piece along the x-axis with their respective elements. EDS software makes it easy to match these piece with the corresponding elements that they originated from. Here are important things to note about EDS. Some elements have overlapping energy peaks with other elements. Careful analysis and experience will help avoid a misidentification. EDS requires a lot of energy to generate enough signal to get a conclusive result. Generally speaking, you want to make sure you are exciting enough X-rays by using a high voltage in the range of 15 to 30 kV to produce plenty of signal that can be used to identify elements present in the sample. Some elements are not detectable and others pose difficulties for EDS analysis. For instance, hydrogen and helium do not have characteristic X-rays. Similarly, lithium and beryllium produce X-rays that are too low-energy to be detected. Despite these challenges, EDS is nonetheless a very useful and simple narrow measurement technique to provide very fast elemental information in many different types of samples. Thank you for watching this video.

### Energy-dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy: Sample Preparation Demonstration
Hello, I'm Roberto Garcia. I'm a Lab Manager at the Analytical Instrumentation Facility at NC State University, part of the Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network.
0:23
I this video, you will learn how to prepare a sample for an energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy experiment, or EDS experiment.
0:31
Since we perform energy dispersive spectroscopy experiments in electron microscopes, preparation of a sample for EDS is the same as a sample preparation for SEM.
0:41
Make sure you're wearing gloves. This is to protect the sample from getting contaminated by oils and dirt from your hands. The sample must be placed on a mount that is compatible with the SEM you are using to perform the experiment. In this case, we're going to attach our sample onto a Hitachi screwmount, which can fit into our Hitachi microscope. We will attach our sample to the mount using double sided carbon tape.
1:04
Double sided tape is sticky on both sides, so we can attach it to the surface of the mount, then place the sample on the tape.
1:11
Carbon tape is more conductive than regular tape and is better suited for electromicroscopy, because it allows transfer of the electrons from the beam into the sample.
1:22
Cut a small square of tape off the roll. The size of the tape cut out needs to be smaller than the area of the mount, but big enough to securely hold the sample. Place the piece of tape on the mount. Make sure the tape is lying flat on the mount. Now remove the paper covering the topside of the tape.
1:39
Using forceps, pick up the sample and carefully place it on the tape.
1:44
Gently press down to make sure the sample adheres to the tape.
1:48
If mounting an insulating samples, such as plastics and polymers, you may need to use a carbon coder to deposit a conductive layer onto the sample, so it will be easier to generate an image.
1:59
Since our sample is made of metal, we do not need to do this step. Now your sample is properly mounted and ready to be placed into the SCM for a EDS experiment.

### Energy-Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy: Measurement Demonstration

Hello. I'm Roberto Garcia. I'm a lab manager at the Analytical Instrumentation Facility at NC State University, part of the Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network. In this video, you will learn how to perform an energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy experiment or EDS experiment on a sample. Make sure your sample is prepared appropriately on a compatible mount for your electron microscope. Today, we're going to identify elements present in a piece of stainless steel. Our sample is mounted on a Hitachi screw mount using double-sided carbon tape. Using gloves to handle your sample, place the mount on the stage. It needs to be secured enough to make sure that the mount won't slip off the stage if we want to tilt the sample inside the chamber. Today, we will be performing our EDS experiment on a Hitachi S3200 variable-pressure scanning electron microscope, or SEM. First, we vent the chamber so we can open it and put our sample inside. After the chamber has vented, the sample can be loaded. Place the sample securely onto the stage. Carefully slide the sample back into the chamber and pump it back under vacuum. Once the chamber reaches appropriate pressure, turn on the high voltage, or HV, to turn on the electron beam. Adjust brightness and contrast until the sample is visible. Find the region of interest and bring it into focus at your desired magnification and working distance. Working distance is the distance between the sample and the pole piece or the beam exits the electron column. The optimal working distance for EDS experiments will be different for each different microscope. It is critical to focus and align the beam at this working distance for a good EDS experiment. For our setup, working distance should be around 18 millimeters. Now that we have our region of interest and focus at optimal working distance, we are ready to perform our EDS experiment. To start our experiment, we must insert the X-ray detector or EDS detector. Detectors may be inserted manually or automatically through the EDS software. Once the detector is inserted, we open up the EDS analysis software. The one we use on this microscope is called Revolution. Now, we begin our scan to collect signal from a region of interest. We can scan the entire region in view and get an idea of all elements present in our image. A spectrum begins to form. This is a live feed of the software counting X-rays at different energies. We can match these spectral fingerprints to a database to identify the elements present and cycle through all elements on the periodic table. Once the bars line up with our peaks, we can be confident that the element is present. From these peaks, it looks like we have some nickel, iron, and chromium in our sample. We can also collect signal from a very specific region or feature using localized signal collections like line scans or smaller area scans. Let's try a small area scan on this region here. Draw a box around the region of interest. Now, the software will collect signal from this area alone. These types of localized scans are useful for determining the composition of a particular feature. Some samples may have a varying elemental compositions in different areas. Since we have identified the elements present in our region of interest, our experiment is complete. We can turn the beam off and remove our sample now. Retract the EDS detector, vent the chamber, remove the sample from the chamber, finally, close the chamber and pump back under vacuum. We are now done with our EDS experiment. Because EDS is a non-destructive technique, we can save our sample and come back any time to replicate our experiment or try other conditions.
