### What is Nanotechnology

Nano means one-billionth. So, a nanometer is one-billionth of a meter. 
- This scale bar gives you an idea of the size of different objects in our world. First, at the right side of the scale bar is the one meter mark. At this side, we have for example a human. The average adult human is about one and a half meters tall on the short side, that's me, to nearly two meters tall on the tall side. Now, let's move to the left along the scale bar and consider smaller objects. A mobile phone is about 0.12 meters long or 12 centimeters long. Continuing on to smaller objects or insects such as ants. These ants are about two millimeters long. So, we're now at the millimeter scale or one one-thousandth of a meter. Continuing on to the left on this scale bar are even smaller objects. We have a human hair for example. As seen under an optical or light microscope, the width of the human hair is 0.1 millimeters or 100 micrometers. In the lingo of the nanoworld, we call micrometers microns. Now we see bacteria here such as E. coli or even smaller. These bacteria have been imaged with an electron microscope, and the bacteria are about two microns in length. So, an E. coli bacteria are about one million times smaller than a human. But hold on, viruses in DNA are much smaller than bacteria. So, our next object here is a reconstructed image of a virus. This just isn't any of virus either. This is the rhinovirus which is the cause of the common cold. The width of a rhinovirus is a mere 30 nanometers. That's 0.03 micrometers which is nearly 10,000 times smaller than the diameter of a human hair. At the far left side of our scale bar, we have a DNA molecule with its characteristic helical-shape. The width of the DNA helix is about two nanometers which is about one billion times smaller than a height of a human. So, back to our first question. Nano meaning one-billionth describes feature sizes that are about a 100 nanometers and smaller which is this left side of the scale bar. Just for fun, let's go in the other direction on our scale bar and see how big an object would be if it were not one billion times smaller than a human but rather one billion times larger than a human. The diameter of the sun in our solar system is about one billion times larger than a human. That's pretty big. So, the comparison between a human and DNA at the nanoscale is the same as comparing the size of the sun to us. Technology at the nanoscale is a diverse field. That's part of our everyday lives. Often in ways, we don't realize. Nanotechnology is used in many industries. For example, consumer electronics such as laptops and mobile phones. Some fabrics used nanotechnology for stain repellent coatings. Nano-materials are also used in cosmetics and in construction or composites for abrasives, and in sports for high strength lightweight equipment. The automotive industry uses nanotechnology for structural materials in electronics such as fuel, cells and batteries. Nanomaterials are also used in applications to deliver chemicals or to filter fluids. For example, carbon nanotube based water filters does not only remove bacteria, viruses and other contaminants from drinking water but also they may end up being less expensive than other methods for water filtration which is particularly important for developing regions of the world. Medical research is exploring the use of nanoparticles to deliver medications to the sight of a tumor, and nanoparticles in quantum dots are being used to treat antibiotic resistant bacteria. Nanotechnology is an enormous field that studies small feature sizes with broad applications. So, we return to the question. What knowledge do we need to become a nano-maker. So, let's look at some of the instruments and techniques we used to study and create at the nanoscale which we will explore in this course. First, to create patterns at the nanoscale, we can use a beam of electrons that we steer to draw patterns with feature sizes as small as 10 nanometers. We can deposit materials that are one atomic layer thick, and that's less than a nanometer thick. We can even persuade atoms in molecules to arrange themselves into organized patterns with nanoscale features. In addition to creating structures, you will also learn about instruments and techniques to characterize nanoscale objects. One example of nanoscale characterization is electron microscopy where we use electrons rather than light to create images of objects at the nanoscale. We can also learn about materials by measuring how light interacts with the material, whether the light is absorbed, is reflected or is transmitted through the material. These are just a few examples of instruments and techniques that you will learn about during this course. New applications of nanotechnology emerge everyday. The nano products of tomorrow lie in your imagination. This course will demonstrate the techniques and share with you the inside information on how to fabricate and characterize at the nanoscale. Join me in learning how to become a nano-maker.

### Introduction to Nano Measurement Tools

Hello. I'm Jacob Jones, director of the Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network or RTNN. In this video, you will be introduced to some of the common tools we use in nano-measurement. Nano-measurement tools are tools or instruments that help us visualize and or characterize something at the nano scale. Nano-measurement tools are not fundamentally different from traditional measurement tools. In any measurement experiment, we are trying to define or discover properties of something. The property you want to measure will affect what measurement tool you use. Consider this, if you want to measure your height, this property can be measured with a tool like a regular ruler or meter stick. If you wanted to measure something smaller like the length of your hand, you would still be able to use the same ruler or the same tool. However, at some point, the ruler tool is no longer useful. If you wanted to measure, say, the thickness of a strand of your hair, you wouldn't be able to accurately quantify the property you want to measure. The tool is neither designed to measure nor characterize at that scale. The subdivisions only go down to millimeters, about ten times the thickness of your hair. One million nanometers are in a single millimeter or the smallest subdivision on a ruler. This is the scale we are measuring at with nano-measurement tools. Visualizing and characterizing a specimen at the nano scale presents significant challenges and requires highly specialized tools and equipment and highly knowledgeable operators to use them. For starters, we need tools to help us visualize down to the nano scale. At best, our naked eye can really only visualize features about the thickness of a single strand of hair. We use microscopes to help us visualize objects and features we cannot see with our naked eyes. In a traditional optical light microscope, a light source illuminates the specimen with visible light and magnifies and focuses the image with a system of lenses. Using optical light microscopes, we can visualize objects as small as blood cells and bacteria. Not all microscopes use a beam of light, electron microscopes use a focused electron beam instead of optical light. The beam of electrons is accelerated, focused, and scanned along the sample. Electrons bounce off the sample and are detected to generate a magnified image of the sample that we can see with our own eyes. Electron microscopes are even more powerful than optical microscopes and capable of allowing us to see things as small as individual atoms. While being able to see at this scale is an astounding feat in itself, we must also use tools to help us measure properties at the nano scale. There is a vast amount of tools and different techniques used within nano measurement, each with the unique means of helping us understand a material. A lot of the tools we use involve bombarding particles onto the sample such as light particles called photons, ions or electrons. Light and electron microscopes work in this way. A beam of electrons or light particles allow us to generate a magnified image of the sample. Each type of particle; ions, electrons and photons, will interact with the specimen in a unique way to reveal different information about the material. The sample might alter the path of the particles like how a prism refracts light into different colors. The way the incident light particles change direction after hitting the material can be measured and can reveal information about the material, or the particle can cause changes in the material itself like structural changes, or absorbing energy and vibrating bonds within the structure. Forcing these interactions to occur and measuring them helps us define and discover properties at the nano scale. Properties that we can determine using nano measurement tools include how big, or in our case, how small something, what it is made of, information about the molecular structure, and the strength of micro sized or nano sized features. Some tools have the capability to observe and measure how these nano scale properties change when the material is exposed to external factors like physical stresses, changes in temperature or radiation. For instance, in this video, we see a live SEM feed of a piece of glass frit on a special stage that can heat up to very high temperatures within the microscope. Once the glass heats up to its melting point, we can see how the particle changes as a result of the temperature change. In the realm of nano measurement, there are so many tools available to help us uncover information about the world around us. 

### Introduction to Nano Febrication Tools

Today, I'm going to give you an overview about how to fabricate materials and structures at the nano scale. The basic components needed for nano fabrication are, an extremely clean environment called the clean room, in which there are very few particles. That's where we perform the fabrication work and, number two, specialized equipment for three basic functions: thin film material deposition, patterning, and etching. To illustrate this, let's think about computer chips, which are also called integrated circuits or IC's. These integrated circuits are made up of structures that include transistors and interconnections between the transistors. These transistors can be very small, with feature sizes, that are only tens of nanometers and this allows us to integrate a large number of transistors into a tiny space, to create a powerful computer. To make sure that there are many transistors that work, even a small piece of dust, must not land on the chip because it can ruin the circuit. Consider this, in 2009, there were 10 quintillion transistors, made in fabrication facilities with clean rooms like the one you will be introduced to in this course. Those 10 quintillion transistors are 250 times the number of grains of rice that were eaten worldwide that year. And for the price to produce a single grain of rice, we can produce 125,000 transistors. This integrated circuits are made with thin materials that we deposit, pattern, and etch, and they're materials such as metals and dielectrics. The machines that perform these nano fabrication steps are the focus of the nano fabrication videos in this course. Let's take a closer look at these materials. Metals are electrically conductive materials such as gold, aluminum and silver. Dielectrics are materials that are not electrically conductive, such as silicon dioxide and silicon nitride. Both of these types of materials are used in a wide variety of structures and devices, and we often use many layers of different materials in our work. Let's start by looking at some examples of devices in materials that my students have fabricated here at Duke, using the tools that we'll show you in this course. First, let's look at lasers. There are many kinds of lasers. For example, in my hand is a common laser pointer, or if you go to the grocery store, you might have your groceries scanned by laser. Lasers are used in many devices today. DVD players use lasers and data is transmitted across optical fibers using laser light. The early lasers were all large, the size of a big table. Today, the lasers that we use, especially for portable devices are very small, and are made with the nano fabrication processes that you'll learn about in these videos. These very small lasers are called semiconductor lasers. Here is a tiny semiconductor laser that my students made here at Duke, in the facilities you'll learn about. This laser can fit onto the head of a pin easily. The scanning electron microscope picture of this laser, shows the metal stripe that pumps electrical current into the laser to produce the output light. In this course, you'll learn about the tools that my students use to deposit, pattern, and etch these metal interconnections. The next example I like to show you is called a metamaterial. The metamaterial, that I show you here, is the first ever reported invisibility cloak and this was made by the David Smith Group at Duke University. This metamaterial is patterned metal on dielectric printed circuit boards, that have been bent. You can see that the metal pattern has lines that are about a millimeter wide. This metamaterial, bends electromagnetic waves around a metal object, that we put in the center of the ring. To make metamaterials that operate at different wavelengths, we need to make the size of these metal patterns different. The size of these metal shapes is called the feature size of the pattern, and different nano fabrication tools, can make different minimum feature sizes. We can make metamaterials with patterned metal with feature sizes that are much smaller than millimeters, to access different wavelengths of light. My students fabricated this metamaterial, using a patterning process called photolithography, which you'll learn about in this course. Photolithography, can produce feature sizes as small as a couple of micron wide. Let's look at it here under a microscope. You can see the metal patterns on the dielectric material clearly under the microscope. Now, to move even closer to visible white with metamaterials, my students fabricated a metamaterial that has 50 nanometer feature sizes of metal that is only nanometers thick. For this, we need to use a scanning electron microscope to see the metal patterns as shown here. In this course, we'll show you what tools are used to fabricate these structures. How did image what you've made, and explain how these tools operate. And finally, our students will demonstrate for you how to use the tools. The metal and dielectric layers that we use to fabricate our structures, devices, and integrated circuits are very small and very thin. The thickness of our metals is often about 100 nanometers or less. Compare this thickness to the diameter of a human hair, which is about 100 microns. That's like comparing the height of the Statue of Liberty to the height of an iPhone. Now, let's get back to our basic tools that we use for nano fabrication. Thin film deposition of metals and dielectrics and then patterning an etching of those deposited in films. There is a variety of equipment that we can use for depositing thin layers of materials. Thin film deposition means that we cover a substrate with another thin material. The substrate is often something that you can hold in your tweezers like this silicon substrate. For example, we might make transistors in a silicon substrate, and we would need to make electrical connections with metals to those transistors. To make those electrical connections, we could deposit layers of metal on to the silicon substrate, as I show here and then, we would pattern the metal as on this substrate. Now, in order for any of these techniques to be successful, as I mentioned previously, we need to be in an extremely clean environment, in which to work so that particles of dust, dirt, or even smoke in the air don't become part of our sample. These airborne particles become defects on our samples and a defect can ruin one or more devices on a substrate. For example, if we're making computer chips on silicon, we make many computer chips on a single silicon substrate, and any of those chips that have a defect, we have to throw away. That means the yield or the number of good chips that we get from a silicon wafer is lower. Particulate control is extremely important for nano fabrication. To control airborne particles, we fabricate structures in a clean room, but a clean room alone is not sufficient for our thin films. Most of these nano fabrication techniques are extremely sensitive to any impurities and contaminants, which also decrease yield. These processes are so sensitive in fact, that the air itself could result in defects, that affect the purity of our thin film coatings so this leads to another requirement for depositing thin layers of high purity materials. We deposit the materials in a vacuum system. A vacuum system is any piece of equipment that has a chamber that provides an environment, which is nearly free of all air molecules. Now, let's talk about the processes that we use for fabrication in these clean environments. First, let's explore some of the nano fabrication tools that will cover in this video series. The thin film deposition that we showed for the metal on a silicon substrate, also applies to other materials. There are many ways to deposit thin films of materials on to our substrates including vacuum evaporation, sputter deposition, and chemical vapor deposition. Depending upon your material and your specific requirements, you may choose any one or a combination of techniques, to deposit one or more layers of different materials on to your substrate. You might also pattern each material separately or pattern a whole stack of materials together, and there are many variants on each of these techniques. Another key process in nano fabrication is patterning, which is typically used within film deposition. Look at our silicon substrate with metal again. One way to make interconnections to the silicon, is to pattern the metal, so it can be removed from the areas where we don't want that metal interconnect. Several common patterning techniques are photolithography, electron beam lithography, and nano imprint lithography. Each of these techniques, will be discussed in dedicated videos in this course. All of these techniques, are used to create patterns in a variety of materials. Now after patterning, we often need to etch that pattern into our deposited thin film, which brings us to the third major type of nano fabrication process, which is etching. This is simply the removal of material. Etching is often paired with a patterning technique so that we can transfer a design we've made in a computer, into a material by etching the pattern regions of material. Etching is typically grouped into one of two types, chemical wet etching and dry etching. Chemical wet etching is typically performed in a chemical fume hood, as in a chemistry lab, using beakers and flasks containing liquids that it might include acids bases and solvents. Dry etching uses no liquids at all. Instead, reactive gases are used to etch the materials. Examples of dry etch processes are reactive ion etching, and inductively couple plasma etching. Both wet and dry etching techniques will be discussed in their respective dedicated videos in this course. Now, you have an idea of how we fabricate materials and structures. In the following videos, we will show you in detail, how the specialized fabrication equipment in clean rooms works for thin film material deposition, patterning and etching, and we'll have demonstrations by our students and staff of how to use each piece of equipment.
