
### Learning Objective
##### Essential Technologies for Nano: Cleanroom

- describe the need for a cleanroom in nanofabrication
- recognize elements of a clearoom
- explain the procedure of entering the cleanroom
- discuss how cleanroom conditions are achieved

##### Essential Technologies for Nano: Vacuum Systems

- identify common contaminants in nanofabrication environments
- define pressure
- discriminate between the different types of vacuum pumps

##### Essential Technologies for Nano: Electromagnetic Spectrum

- discern different types of energy on the electromagnetic spectrum
- calculate the theoretical resolution of a microscope using Rayleigh's equation given wavelength and numerical aperture

##### Essential Technologies for Nano: Electron Beams

- relate how the wavelength of an electron changes as its velocity changes
- identify and describe different ways in which electrons can interact with a sample

### Essential Technologies for Nano: Cleanroom
The Clean Room is where we perform the majority of our fabrication steps. We've introduced the basic technologies that we use in fabrication including thin film deposition, patterning, and etching. But before we go into more detail about fabrication, let's look at the extremely clean environments that we need for high-yield fabrication. The extremely clean environment for fabrication is called a Clean Room. And as the name suggests, a Clean Room is, well, a clean room where people and equipment can perform fabrication processes. Clean Rooms are used in many industries where small particles can negatively affect the manufacturing process or yield including semiconductor manufacturing, optics, pharmaceuticals, biotech and medical devices. But what exactly does a Clean Room mean? Clean rooms have a control level of airborne particle contamination per cubic meter at a specified particle size, as well as controlled temperature and humidity. Clean Rooms have an ISO or International Organization of Standardization rating, based upon the number of particles per cubic meter of air. As an example, the outdoor air in a typical city environment contains millions of particles per cubic meter that are a half a micron and larger in diameter. In contrast, a typical Clean Room which is rated ISO5 can only have 3,520 particles per cubic meter that are over a half micron in diameter. The Clean Rooms that you'll see in these videos are rated ISO 5 and 6. Particulate contamination is controlled with special air flow in the Clean Room designed to filter out airborne particles and to minimize the amount of particles that are stirred up from surfaces. The key air filtration component for Clean Rooms is the high efficiency particulate air or HEPA filter that is used to trap and filter out particles that are 0.3 microns and larger in size. All of the air delivered through a Clean Room passes through these HEPA filters which are typically located in the ceiling. The extra air is then typically flowing out through vents near the floor. What causes airborne particulate contamination in a Clean Room? Mostly it's the people. Even motionless people shed particles. And if you start moving around you shed millions of particles per minute. So personnel working in clean rooms must practice particle control. They enter and exit the Clean Room through airlocks and or a gown in room that are at higher pressure than the outside. This pressure difference ensures that clean air flows out of the Clean Room rather than dirty air flowing into the Clean Room, when the doors open and people enter and exit. People's clothing sheds an enormous number of particles, so people in a Clean Room must wear special Clean Room suits that don't shed particles and that contain the particles that are shed from the person's clothing underneath the Clean Room garment. They are even designed to trap contaminants that are naturally generated by a person's skin and body. They cover a person's entire body except for their face and hands. To complete the Clean Room clothing process which is called gowning, our Clean Room users put on gloves and a face mask and eye protection. The gloves make a big difference. A moving bare hand produces 200,000 particles per minute and a gloved hand produces only 150 particles per minute. There are also strict requirements regarding what is allowed in a Clean Room. For example, normal paper is prohibited because normal paper sheds a lot of particles, Likewise, pencil shed particles. So instead of typical paper and pencils, we use specialized Clean Room paper and pens that do not shed particles. Let's go into the Clean Room now and meet one of my students, and she and I will gown up and show you what it's like to enter the Clean Room.

Hey Callie, thanks for joining me today to learn how to suit up in the Clean Room, so that when can enter the Clean Room and do our processes. Thank you, I'm very happy to be here and to help out. Alright lets go. Oh, wait a minute. Mitch, if you got the camera in the Clean Room you got to suit up too. There's a procedure we use when we gown up to enter the Clean Room. It's called the gowning protocol. We start with gloves like Callie is doing right now and then we start at the top and we work our way down. So here we go with the gloves.

First, we put on the hood. Next, we put on our Clean Room gowns.

Next, we put on our masks. If you don't wear glasses you need to wear safety goggles. All right, now we are all set. Let's go.

### Essential Technologies for Nano: Vaccum System
I'm going to introduce you to vacuum systems. In other videos, we've introduced the basic technologies that we use in fabrication including thin film deposition, patterning and etching. We've also learned about the extremely clean rooms that we use for fabrication. Now, let's talk a bit more about the environment inside much of the equipment, namely, the vacuum environment. While working in a clean room is typically a requirement for people performing fabrication tasks, the actual processing, for example, the thin film deposition requires an additional level of cleanliness. Most of the processes are so sensitive to contaminants and impurities that the air molecules themselves can become embedded in the film and will adversely affect the process, the yield and performance of our product. This concern can be addressed using vacuum systems. Vacuum systems are typically a chamber or vessel that can be sealed off from the outside environment. After the chamber is sealed, the air molecules contained within the chamber are removed with one or more vacuum pumps. We'll discuss the details of vacuum pumps in several dedicated videos. There are many different types of vacuum pumps but all pumps serve one basic purpose. To remove air from a vacuum chamber. Let's think about a sealed chamber for a minute. The air inside is made up of different types of molecules such as nitrogen, oxygen and carbon dioxide. These air molecules are moving and bouncing around inside the chamber as we see here. The more molecules, the higher the air pressure in the chamber. As long as the temperature is constant then pressure is a measure of the amount of gas molecules within the chamber. As we remove the air from the chamber, we can measure just how much air remains by measuring the pressure. Two common units of pressure used in laboratories are Torr and Pascal. A normal room has a pressure of 760 torr or 100kPa. As we remove the air from the chamber, the pressure will drop accordingly. For example, if we remove 99% of the air from a chamber, the pressure would be about 7.6 torr. How does that high vacuum that we use for thin film deposition compare to outer space? Well, at the International Space Station, the pressure is 10 (-9) torr. In our high vacuum systems for nano fabrication, we typically use pressures of 10 (-7) torr. What's the other difference? Well, there's gravity in our vacuum systems. To establish a vacuum, first, we need a sealed chamber. This is typically a solid metal or glass enclosure. In order for the chamber to be of any use, it needs to have an opening of some sort. For example, a door or port that can be opened for putting samples in and taking samples out of the chamber. The door needs to be airtight when it's closed or air will simply leak back into the vacuum system when we pump it out with a vacuum pump. So the door needs a seal or we say a gasket to make it vacuum tight. There are many types of gasket materials but a common material is vacuum compatible rubber. Once the door is closed and the chamber sealed, then we can use a vacuum pump to remove the air from the chamber. We'll talk about these different types of pumps in detail in later videos. But briefly, there are many types of pumps available, each with a specific property. In general, vacuum pumps fall into one of three categories. Positive displacement pumps which push air out of the chamber, momentum transfer pumps which bounce air molecules out of the chamber and entrapment pumps which trap or freeze, in some cases, the air molecules to remove them from the chamber. Vacuum chambers and vacuum pumps are critical tools for us to establish the necessary conditions for many of our nano fabrication processes, namely, ultra clean and air free. I hope you enjoyed this lesson. Thank you for joining me today.

### Essential Technologies for Nano: Electrommmagnetic Spectrum
0:13
Welcome, my name in Carrie Donley and I am the director of Chapel Hill Analytical and Nanofabrication Lab, or CHANL, at the University of North Carolina.
0:24
Today, we will be talking about the electromagnetic spectrum.
0:28
Most people are familiar with water waves or sound waves. But waves in the form of electromagnetic radiation are not as commonly known.
0:36
One type of electromagnetic radiation you are already familiar with is visible radiation. This is what our eyes are sensitive to and it's what allows us to see different colors. In this diagram, you can see that electromagnetic radiation has a wavelength associated with it.
0:55
Visible light falls in the wavelength range between 400 nanometers and 700 nanometers.
1:01
In this video, we will talk about the types of radiation that are commonly used to characterize materials.
1:09
Many of you are also familiar with x-rays. If you break a bone, or visit the dentist, you will likely have x-ray images taken. X-rays can travel through many materials, and they can be used to image bones in the human body.
1:24
But you want to limit your exposure to x-ray radiation because it has much more energy then visible light and can cause damage to your cells. X-ray radiation has wavelengths from 0.01 to 10 nanometers, and they can be useful for characterizing materials.
1:44
When you spend too much time in the sun, ultraviolet, or UV radiation, is what causes us sunburn. It also has shorter wavelength than visible light, but it has more energy than visible light. In fact, it has enough energy that it can cause damage to skin cells. UV light can be used in a number of optical spectroscopies.
2:08
Infrared radiation has longer wavelengths than visible light. Its wavelength can range from 800 nanometers to 1 millimeter. If you've ever felt the heat from a hot object, you've felt infrared radiation.
2:23
It can also be used for material characterization.
2:28
Visible radiation is the light we can see with our eyes in the wavelength range from 400 nanometers to 700 nanometers.
2:37
It is used in a number of characterization tools, including light microscopy.
2:42
Let's take a minute to talk about how visible light can be used for imaging. Many of you are probably familiar with a light microscope because it is commonly used in basic biology classes.
2:54
A light microscope is made up of a light source, lenses to focus the light, a way to focus the sample in the light path and a detector that is sensitive to the light, like your eye or a camera.
3:08
Many of the same components are found in other microscopes as well.
3:13
Here is an image that shows what can be seen on a light microscope.
3:17
The RTNN logo in this image is about 1.5 milometers wide, but the features with in it are much smaller. Each letter at the bottom of the logo is about 50 microns wide.
3:31
As you can imagine, light microscopes opened up a new way for people to look at small things. The human eye can only see things as small as about as 0.1 millimeters, or the width of a human hair.
3:46
Light microscopes allow us to see much smaller things. The best light microscopes can see things that 0.2 microns wide. This is about 1,000 times smaller than what we can see with our eyes.
4:01
Often, we will talk about the resolution of a microscope, which is the smallest feature that the microscope is able to image.
4:09
There is a simple equation, called the Rayleigh Equation, that describes the best resolution a microscope can achieve. It says the resolution is equal to 0.6 times the wavelength of radiation, or lambda, divided by the numerical aperture of the microscope.
4:27
The resolution is limited by the wavelength of light that is used. In theory, we can design a microscope with better resolution if we use radiation with a smaller wavelength.
4:40
Thank you for joining me for this discussion of the electromagnetic spectrum.
### Essential Technologies for Nano: Electron Beams
0:14
Welcome. My name is Carrie Donley, and I am the Director of the Chapel Hill Analytical and Nanofabrication Lab, or CHANL, at the University of North Carolina.
0:24
Today, we will be talking about electron beams.
0:28
This is an image of the RTNN logo taken with an electron microscope.
0:33
Notice the scale of bar in the bottom-right corner.
0:37
As the microscope zooms in to the features of this logo, you can see that there is another much smaller UNC logo also present.
0:45
This one is only about 200 microns wide, and the features are even smaller.
0:51
If we continue to zoom in, you'll see another logo. This one is of the famous old well landmark at UNC.
1:00
This logo is only 4 microns wide. And the features within it are even smaller. The electron microscope clearly has better resolution than the light microscope.
1:12
Electrons are the elementary unit of negative charge. You use electrons on a daily basis when you use electricity in your home.
1:20
Anytime you plug something into the outlet at the wall in your house, you are using electricity. The flow of electrons along power lines also carries electrical power into your home.
1:33
But electrons can also act as waves. The wavelength of an electron is described by the equation shown here. The wavelength, lambda, is equal to Planck's Constant divided by the mass of the particle times the velocity of the particle. Since Planck's Constant and the mass of an electron are known, we can determine the wavelength of an electron if we know how fast it's traveling. The faster the electron is traveling, the smaller its wavelength will be.
2:06
Electrons can move through wires. For example, when electricity comes into your house from a power station.
2:13
Or when electricity travels from an outlet to a light bulb.
2:18
Electrons can also travel through air. An example of this is lightning. Lightning is the result of electrons moving between a cloud and the ground as a result of a voltage.
2:30
Electrons can also move through vacuum, and this is what happens in an electron microscope.
2:37
Since electrons are negatively charged, we can cause them to move by applying a voltage. The velocity of an electron depends on the voltage used to accelerate it. For example, if we were to apply an accelerating voltage of 100 kilovolts, the electron would have a velocity of 1.6 x 10 to the eighth meters per second, and a wavelength of 3.9 picometers. 3.9 picometers is 0.0039 nanometers, which is really small. For example, the oxygen molecules in the air that we breathe are composed of two oxygen atoms connected with a double bond. The distance between these two oxygen atoms is about 0.1 nanometers. 3.9 picometers is much smaller than that. And also much smaller than the wavelength of visible light, which ranges from 400 nanometers to 700 nanometers. Therefore, when using electrons to image, we should be able to resolve much smaller objects. Now that we have talked about how we can move electrons, and that they should be able to allow us to image very small things, we should look at how electrons interact with a sample.
3:57
Electrons that are accelerated towards a sample will enter the sample and interact with the electrons already present. Some of the incident electrons will scatter or bounce around in the sample.
4:09
At each scattering event, they will lose some energy until they run out of energy and are left stuck in the sample. These electrons are captured by the sample.
4:22
Some of the electrons from the incident electron beam will scatter in the sample and will eventually make their way back out of the sample. These are back-scattered electrons. Sometimes, an incident electron will strike an electron already present in the sample and knock it out of the sample. This is called a secondary electron.
4:43
Both secondary electrons and back-scatter electrons can be used in scanning electron microscopy, or SEM.
4:52
After a secondary electron has been produced, a byproduct of the relaxation process is the production of X-rays. We can measure the energy of these X-rays in a technique called Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy, or EDS.
5:09
If the sample is thin enough, around 150 nanometers or less, then some electrons will pass through the sample.
5:18
Electrons that pass through the sample without interacting with it at all, will retain the same direction of travel and energy as the incident electrons.
5:28
These electrons are used in transmission electron microscopy, or TEM.
5:34
Other electrons will pass through the sample, but will scatter either elastically or inelastically. Elastically scattered electrons will change direction but retain the same energy as the incident electrons. These electrons can be used in a technique called electron diffraction to understand the crystalline nature of the sample.
5:57
Inelastically scattered electrons will change direction and also lose some energy as they interacts with the sample. They can be used in a technique called Electron Energy Loss spectroscopy, or EELS, to characterize the atomic concentration of the sample.
6:14
As you can see, electrons are very useful for a variety of nanocharacterization techniques.
