### Learning Objective

##### Optical Spectroscopy: Basic Function, learners will be able to:

- describe different ways in which light can interact with matter at multiple length scales

##### Optical Spectroscopy: Sample Preparation Demonstration, learners will be able to:

- describe the basic process of sample preparation for optical spectroscopy and the rationale for each step

##### Optical Spectroscopy: Measurement Demonstration, learners will be able to:

- describe the basic process of optical spectroscopy and the rationale for each step
- describe differences seen in micrographs and scattering spectra of different nanoparticles

### Optical Spectroscopy: Basic Function

Welcome. My name is Carrie Donley, and I'm the Director of the Chapel Hill Analytical and Nanofabrication Lab, or CHANL at UNC. Today we will be talking about different types of optical spectoscopies, and how they can be used to characterize materials. The colors that we see with our eyes are created by light interacting with matter in different ways. We see many different colors in nature, and people have been making brightly colored stained glass windows for centuries. Did you know that red stained glass often contain gold nanoparticles? And it is this nanoparticles that make it appear red. Let's take some time today to talk about how light interacts with matter on different size scales and how we can measure those interactions.
1:03
When you shine light on a piece of glass, the light goes through the glass. We call this transmission, and we can measure the amount of light transmitted through a sample. When light is not transmitted, there are a few other things that can be happening. One is absorption of light. When you look at a red apple, the reason it looks red is because it absorbs all other colors of light, and the red light is reflected back to your eye. We can measure of the amount of light absorbed and plot it as a function of wavelength as shown here. The wavelengths are shown on the bottom of this graph, and there is an absorbance peak around 550 nanometers. Another way that light can interact with matter is for the incident light to reflect off the surface. This is what happens with a mirror, for example. Finally, light can also be scattered by a surface. Typically this happens on rough surfaces and the type of scattering will depend on the size of the particles doing the scattering. Now that we know something about how light Interacts with matter, we can understand what we see with our eyes a bit better. The sun and the lamp in this picture both looked right because they emit light. The snow also looks bright, but this is because sunlight is reflected off the snow, and some of that light makes it back to our eyes. Lamp light reflects off the mirror, the couch looks red, because it absorbs all other colors and reflects red light back to our eye, and the window transmits all visible light and allows us to see what's outside.
2:44
But light interacts with nanoscale materials very differently. Bulk gold and nanoparticle gold look very different to our eyes. These vials all contain cadmium selenide nanoparticles. The only difference between the nanoparticles is their size. The nanoparticle's size clearly affects the color of the solutions, and as the color of the solutions changes, so will the absorbent spectrum. Visible light has wavelengths between 400 and 700 nanometers. When visible light interacts with nanoparticles that are similar to or smaller than the wavelength of light, the light interacts with the material in a different way than it would with a larger bulk material. We now understand that the color of light absorbed by a nanoparticle will change as the nanoparticle size changes. The way light scatters or reflects will also depend on the size of the particles. There are three different types of reflection and scattering. Reflection in the ray optics limit, rayleigh scattering, and mie scattering. In the ray optics limit, the wavelength of light is much smaller than the particles. In the winter, snow can look especially bright because sunlight reflects off the rough snowflakes, and reflects the sunlight back to our eyes. Rayleigh scattering happens when the wavelength of light is much larger than the particles that are scattering the light. One example of Rayleigh scattering is the blue sky. When light travels through the atmosphere, gas molecules in the atmosphere scatter the light. This process is wavelength dependent, with shorter wavelengths scattering much more than longer wavelengths. More blue light is scattered and reaches our eyes than the red light, and therefore the sky looks blue. Finally, in Mie Scattering, the particles are similar in size to the wavelength of light. In this case, the wavelength of light scattered will depend on the size of the particles. A cloud appears white because it contains small water droplets of all different sizes. Each individual water droplet will scatter a different wavelength of light, but the collection of droplets in the cloud will scatter all wavelengths, and the cloud will appear white. Here are the predictive absorbance and scattering spectra for gold nanoparticles in water which show Mie scattering. The spectrum shape and peak position depend on what material the nanoparticles are made of and the size of the particles. Nanoparticles like these are used for quite a range of applications, from increasing light absorption in solar cells, to enhancing chemical sensing. For all of this applications we need to know the exact color of their absorption and scattering. For this we turn to optical spectroscopy. For centuries gold nanoparticles have been used to create red stained glass. And silver nanoparticles have been used to create yellow stain glass. At that time, the artist producing these windows knew that gold produced red colors and silver produced yellow colors, but they didn't understand that it was due to nanoparticles. If they did, they could have controlled the size of the nanoparticles to create other colors as well. The Lycurgus Cup, a fourth century Roman glass cup, is another famous example of nanoparticles scattering in absorption. If the cup is lit from the front, the nanoparticles gather green light, making the cup appear green. But if the cup is lit from behind, the nanoparticles absorb all light but red and the cup appears to be red in color. It seems that the Romans also knew something about how light interacted with nanoparticles long before we did. In today's lecture, we talked about how light interacts with matter, and specifically how nanoparticles interact differently than large bulk materials. I hope you enjoyed this lesson on optical spectroscopy.

### Optical Spectroscopy: Sample Preparation Demostration
Hello. My name is Carrie Donley. I'm the director of the Chapel Hill Analytical and Nanofabrication Lab or CHANL at UNC. With me today is Kaci Kuntz, a graduate student at UNC. >>Today, I will be preparing some samples of gold nanoparticles so that we can measure the scattering spectrum. The samples are supposed to be 50, 100 and 200 nanometer nanoparticles and 40 by 60, and 50 by 110 nanometer nanorods. Theory predicts that I should see a change in the peak position as the size changes, and I will use optical spectroscopy to help confirm this. I will be making these samples on small pieces of silicon wafer, and we'll need some pipettes, deionised or ultrapure water, solutions of gold nanoparticles and nanorods of different sizes, a polylysine solution, a beaker or other container to collect our chemical waste, and some tweezers. Notice that the silicon wafers look shiny and clean before we modify it. The first thing I will do is treat these silicon wafers with the polylysine solution. Gold nanoparticles don't necessarily like to stick to clean glass slides, but we may do the often aggregate or clumped together in bunches. Aggregated nanoparticles show different optical properties than isolated nanoparticles. By depositing a thin layer of polylysine onto the surface first, we can create a layer that the nanoparticles want to stick to, and it also helps to prevent aggregation. I will leave the polylysine solution on the silicon surface for about five minutes. This gives the polylysine a chance to settle out of the solution and adsorb onto the wafer. I'll rinse the polylysine off the surface of the wafer and dry the surface with air or nitrogen.
2:21
I will deposit the nanoparticles in a similar fashion. A small amount of the solution is placed onto the wafer and allowed to settle for about five minutes. Once the solution has been on the silicon wafer for about five minutes, we'll rinse the solution off the surface with water and dry the sample with nitrogen. To our eyes, the sample looks very much like it did before because the nanoparticles are too small for us to see with our eyes, and we would need a microscope to be able to see them. In addition to this sample, I have prepared other nanoparticle and nanorods samples. They are ready to be imaged with a microscope to make sure the particles have stuck to the surface, and I can also take some scattering spectra of them. Thank you for watching this video. I'm preparing nanoparticle samples for optical spectroscopy.

### Optical Spectroscopy: Measurement Demostration
Welcome, my name is Carrie Donley and I'm the director of the Chapel Hill Analytical and Nanofabrication Lab or CHANL at UNC. Joining me today is Kaci Kuntz a graduate student here at UNC. Thank you, Carrie. Today, I will be demonstrating how to measure the scatterings spectrum of gold nanoparticles. The system we will use to take this data is a combination of a light microscope and a spectrometer, we call it a microspectrophotometer. First, I will place one of my samples onto the microscope stage. This is a sample with 200 nanometer gold nanoparticles. Then I will focus on the sample in brightfield reflection mode. In this mode, I see a lot of light reflected off of the shiny silicon wafer and it is difficult to see any of the scattered light from the nanoparticles. The features we see at the top of the image are chips on the edge of the silicon wafer. And if you look closely, you can see some small dots on the wafer. Those are the nanoparticles. Now, I'll switch to darkfield reflection mode. In this mode only light that has been scattered will be collected by the objective and it will be much easier to see the nanoparticle scattering. I can see individual nanoparticles using this technique and I can also tell that they are not clustered together in aggregates but separated from one another. This is exactly what I was hoping to see in this image. At the 50X magnification, I can compare the images from the different sized particles. The particles look to be different sizes and they also appear to be different colors. This is because nanoparticles of different sizes will scatter different colors of light. I can now take some spectra of the samples. On this instrument, the area inside the red square in the center of the image is the area from which we will collect our spectrum. I'll place it in a location with a lot of particles. Because there are only about 10 nanoparticles within the square and the amount of light that they each scatter is pretty low, it takes a minute or two to collect enough light for one spectrum. But after I collect spectra for each sample, I can see that the scattering peak shift to higher wavelengths as the size of the nanoparticle increases. Now, let's consider the scattering by nanorods. The spectra for these samples are a bit more complicated. The nanoparticles were spheres with just one diameter but the nanorods have two dimensions. Sometimes the spectra for nanorods contain more than one peak. You can see that here in the spectra for the 50 by 110 nanometer nanorods. This is due to the large difference in length scales in the nanorod. Many applications such as solar cells and chemical sensors use nanoparticles like these. And scientists need to measure the reflectance spectra of the nanoparticles to make better solar cells and sensors. I hope this demonstration of nanoparticle scattering helps you understand this process. Thank you for joining me.
